---
layout: post
title: "Tony"
date: 2007-12-07 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "Just after Thanksgiving, we said goodbye to Tony, who'd been here for a month. Tony is a neighbor ..."
header-img: "/img/news/46_tony12.JPG"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
Just after Thanksgiving, we said goodbye to Tony, who'd been here for
a month. Tony is a neighbor of my parents in Yorkshire, and, last May,
very kindly offered his house to Pescadero ladies when we flew over in
a group to surprise my mother on her seventieth birthday. Some of the
friends hadn't been to Europe before, and Tony hadn't been to the
United States, so he came to try it out! While he was here, Tony built
a pen for visitors to pet the baby goats, not to mention painting, and
fixing, and generally making things better. He had words of advice on
our business, and, on antique-hunting trips, found some of the
gorgeous old milkcans you see in our shop. I have to say, I envy
celebrities not for their lovely glowing faces, red carpet gowns and
babies with Brad Pitt, but for their assistants with clipboards. The
sheer joy of being accompanied by somebody who makes things happen is
one of the best feelings in the world.  We didn't work him to the bone
he was allowed off the farm occasionally! - and everybody enjoyed
entertaining him, not least the ladies who stayed with him in
Yorkshire!  We're missing him - and all those expertly-made cups of
tea - and look forward to seeing Tony again soon.

