---
layout: post
title: "Shangri-La"
date: 2007-10-30 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "Blossom and Daisy are two of our most sweet-tempered goats, and always on call for milking demonstrations at ..."
header-img: "/img/news/heads/43_google2.JPG"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
Blossom and Daisy are two of our most sweet-tempered goats, and always
on call for milking demonstrations at the farm. However... as soon as
we got to Google this past weekend Blossom made a frantic break for
her freedom, capering across the Google lawns in probably the most
chaotic action the Google lawns have ever seen. I don't know; she may
have fancied the engineering life. It's a Shangri-La for engineers at
Google we loved the clean-cut boys doing their laundry early on
Saturday morning, and the compostable cutlery in the canteens, and
you'll have to check out the bathrooms! It was the delightful Google
chefs hosting us, for a DooF-a-Palooza http://www.foodbackwards.com/Â 
kids enjoying real food on a new PBS series.

![image](/img/news/43_google3.JPG){: .center-image }

Katya (left) interviewing me for PBS

The very delightful David Poth, kitchen manager, made us feel hungry
describing how the Google food is real they shop for seasonal, local
food (within 150 miles if not from their own strictly aligned,
immaculate vegetable boxes). After we'd redesigned the straw bale pen,
to thwart Blossom, who definitely won't be hired again, we had a
fabulous time. We had two of our first baby goats along as well, and
most people are surprised at their soft cuddliness. We got to admire
the incision of Google offspring (Exactly how many different types of
goat are there?), and their parents ('Look! See how the goat's pupils
are stadium-shaped?).  A great day out!

