---
layout: post
title: "To the future!"
date: 2008-02-01 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "It's nippy and pinched outside, suitable weather for woolly socks and looking forward to the future. December was ..."
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
It's nippy and pinched outside, suitable weather for woolly socks and
looking forward to the future. December was such a party month, with
our shop in full holiday dress, and our Christmas bazaar, and our
annual staff dinner.

We held our bazaar for both weekend days, and the barn was jammed to
the rafters with crafts and shoppers! My highlights were the fabulous
goat photographs,  and tiny Christmas tree fairies, made by local
girls. They both approached me to see if they could bring their stuff
to sell, and they both sold out. The bazaar was also honored by a
visit from rarely-seen Three-Fingered Bil, of whom more later..

We ended the year with a county sustainability award ' the cherry on
the top of a really wonderful 2007. Sustainability is about using the
best of our natural resources, and looking to the future. We cherish
the past by maintaining our farm buildings, built so well almost a
century ago, but we don't aim to horse-plow the pastures, for example.
Last summer we perfected a goat cheese paint, and after seeing how it
stands up this winter, we'll be ready to offer our paint for sale.

And, our staff dinner was a luscious beef bourguignon, from one of the
three cows we raised in 2007. Many of us don't eat much red meat, but
this was a real feast and celebration of all we've achieved so far.

Finally, no baby goats yet this year, but we expect them to arrive
very soon!

