---
layout: post
title: "A Blue Rosette Week"
date: 2009-08-28 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "August is almost over, and the kids are back at school. It has been an astonishingly gratifying month ..."
header-img: "/img/news/heads/12_cheesebowl.jpg"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
August is almost over, and the kids are back at school. It has been an
astonishingly gratifying month for the farm. In the first week of the
month, we featured twice on NPR and were filmed for ABC.

Sharina never got off the â€˜phone, hearing your comments and taking
bookings for tours and events. We were awarded a $33,500 grant for our
irrigation project, of which more later! And we won a blue rosette at
the 2009 American Cheese Society competition for our fresh goat milk
cheese. That is, a national first place for our basic farmstead
cheese!

We consistently win national prizes for our plain cheese. It has the
delicious taste of our town: the Pacific breezes, the rich loam and
nutritious pasture, our healthy herd of goats. I thank the judges, and
all our visitors and friends, for their support. But this is not my
prize. It belongs to Salud and Roberto and their family.

I met Roberto when I was very young. I had moved out of my yurt and in
with my husband, and was working at Jacobs Farm in Pescadero. Roberto
and I would drive a flatbed truck to the produce terminal at SFO at
night, and pick up and deliver boxes of tomatoes and herbs. We got on
so well for seven years that of course I asked him to join me in
restoring the dairy farm where I lived.

Roberto's wife Salud had followed him from Guanajuato, with their two
younger girls. She looked after my baby with such a strong work ethic
it was obvious she could run the new dairy business. Salud began
traveling to Davenport two or three times a week, for a year, to learn
the art of cheese making from Nancy Gaffney, who had sold me her
goats. Roberto and Salud's older daughters, Norma and Rebecca, joined
her in the dairy.

It is the consistency of Roberto and Salud's work, and that of
everybody else on the farm, that earns our prizes. Every action on the
pasture, with the goats, or in the dairy, is exact and timely, as it
was the day before, and will be tomorrow. The blue rosettes are
theirs.

![image](/img/news/12_cheesebowl.jpg){: .center-image }

Norma's hands. See the rosette on Salud here

