---
layout: post
title: "On the ground"
date: 2010-10-04 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "When we look for staff at Harley Farms, we consider what they bring to our farm community, and ..."
header-img: "/img/news/heads/78_SCCSdinner.jpg"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
When we look for staff at Harley Farms, we consider what they bring to
our farm community, and to the larger Pescadero community.   Pescadero
is a deeply romantic place to live and work, given its scattering of
cottages and farms on a saltwater marsh bordered by fertile fields and
gentle hills rolling back from the coast. We have a strong community
here, not least because so many people who live here are generous and
humble, ready to relinquish their time and efforts for the benefit of
the community. Adults and young people from all backgrounds see
themselves as having a role in supporting the whole community.   I see
this clearly at South Coast Children's Services, which works withÂ  -
not for - local children to provide sports and art, youth employment,
and youth involvement across the state. Be it an excursion to a
chocolate-making factory, snowboarding, the annual delegation to the
YMCA's Model United Nations, or the position of Youth Thrift Shop
Manager, local young people have honed their leadership, financial and
planning skills in organizing these opportunities.   SCCS is a genuine
community-based organization, established in Pescadero in 1977 by
community members, with all decisions made by community members. The
more community-based organizations we have, the stronger we are as a
community. It has been a pleasure and a great strength for me to have
been part of SCCS for many years.

![image](/img/news/78_SCCSdinner.jpg){: .center-image }

Local young people at the 2010 South Coast Children's Services
Volunteer Appreciation Dinner

Through SCCS, I learned of the Philanthropic Ventures Foundation,
whose glorious mission is to &quot;bring joy, simplicity, trust and
effectiveness to grant-making.&quot; It has been an honor for us at
the farm to use one of these grants to support our employees from Hope
Services. Hope trains people with developmental disabilities to live
and participate in their communities, across the Bay Area. Using our
grant, Connie Fortino here at the farm has been able to retrofit a
minivan to carry a wheelchair, purchase dental insurance, a hearing
aid, and extra clothes and shoes. Immediate &quot;on the ground&quot;
support for wider community members.   So, for our staff, it's never
just a job. We are a community.

