---
layout: post
title: "Our European heritage"
date: 2011-10-11 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "Leaving our eighteen-year-old son at home on the farm, we are away for three weeks in Wales, Yorkshire ..."
header-img: "/img/news/107_portmeirion-map-64881.png"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
Leaving our eighteen-year-old son at home on the farm, we are away for
three weeks in Wales, Yorkshire and Puglia. It will be a rejuvenating
break from work, a catch-up with family, and a chance to sit in the
sun with the celebrated peasant cooking of southern Italy. I will be
looking at farms, too, with an eye for the innovative and the
traditional. We want to find a higher-quality packaging for our
cheeses, moving away from plastic to a breathable, attractive and
practical alternative, and I'll look at presentation in English and
Italian cheeses.

![image](/img/news/107_portmeirion-map-64881.png)

Portmeirion in north Wales

We have family in Wales, and we'll visit the surprising Italianate
town of Portmeirion, designed or rebuilt by an architect who loved
Mediterranean Italy. If the Welsh skies are not dark with rain, the
views over the estuary and gardens are grand. Portmeirion is a stand-
in for glamorous Europe on British television, and famously the secret
location of a cult sixties show called The Prisoner. You've probably
seen Portmeirion china, too: the green and floral botanical prints on
white pottery, and other designs, were made by the village architect's
daughter.

![image](/img/news/107_barnsley-map-71887.png)

Barnsley in Yorkshire

My parents still live in Old Royston, outside Barnsley in Yorkshire.
It's industrial countryside, with canals and the railway - but there's
no mining or linen weaving now, and very little glass-making. The
villages and towns have plenty of small businesses, though, and I
enjoy the food shopping at small butchers and greengrocers, the
leisurely tea-rooms and heavingly popular plant nurseries.

![image](/img/news/107_images.jpg)

Puglia in southern Italy

Puglia is my husband's choice. It is the heartland of Italian olive
oil, with simple, delicious cooking and many small farms to visit.
We'll wander rugged olive groves and look out for fresh cheeses. I'll
also be looking for inspiration for our farm shop. I love the tactile
pleasures of practical, hand-made things. Not the must-have
accessories of those who judge themselves and others by their
possessions - merely a very few, useful things made with skill and
centuries of experience. I will bring a little of that European
heritage back with me.



