---
layout: post
title: "Goldmine in my field"
date: 2014-09-05 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "This summer, a visitor wrote to me that she had walked through our secret gardens on a workshop, ..."
header-img: "/img/news/heads/159_water1.JPG"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
This summer, a visitor wrote to me that she had walked through our
secret gardens on a workshop, and found them sadly in decline compared
to their glory twenty years ago. This was poignant. Not for her words,
but for the story behind them. Twenty years ago the gardens had
plentiful watering. Twenty years ago, too, we knew less about the
effects of pumping water from the creeks that run through our land.
Today I know much more. And this summer, I had no water at all for
those gardens.

![image](/img/news/159_water1.JPG){: .center-image }

Fifteen years ago, I chased a grant from the Natural Resources
Conservation Service. It is a national agency whose mission is to help
&quot;America's farmers, ranchers and forest landowners conserve the
nation's soil, water, air and other natural resources&quot;. My grant
is a cost-share program. That is, I make payments in full, and they
reimburse 50% of my costs.

![image](/img/news/159_water2.JPG){: .center-image }

With the support of the NRCS, we began to protect the watershed on our
land. We planted willows to support the creek banks. We fenced
creekside pastures with a generous set-back from the banks, to prevent
excess nitrates from animal feces draining into the creek. We
installed huge rainwater recycling tanks. These projects were
enormously expensive, and I struggled to find the income to pay for
them over the years.Â  It was a relief to receive the reimbursement
when it came. In the most recent financial downturn, we were lucky to
receive the Obama administration's extra stimulus for landowners
already in this NRCS program. We bought all our supplies from US
companies, and have always hired local labor.

![image](/img/news/159_Screen shot 2014-09-05 at 11_31_09 AM.png){: .center-image }

In 2009, we dug a well in our south pasture, across the road from the
pasture immediately behind the farm. We had been watering all pasture
from the creek in the south pasture, pumping the water under the road
to the rest of the farm. I understood by now that to truly protect the
watershed, we would have to stop taking water from the creek.
Basically, no water, no fish. No creek life. The well drilling cost
almost $50,000. Even with the promised 50% reimbursement, I couldn't
go on. The electricity company wanted a deposit of $5000 simply to
look at the job of pumping well water to the rest of the farm. I had a
hole, but no water.

![image](/img/news/159_newbarn.JPG){: .center-image }

In 2011, we bought the land and barn next to the farm. This property
had a well. Now I could forget the electricity company's gouging. Now
we have a well on the same side of the road as the pasture behind the
farm, the pasture that needs watering in the summer if the goats are
to eat grass. I had a vastly increased mortgage, but at least I had a
new well.

However, the south side of the road was still dry. The secret gardens
were parched. There was no water for our orchard and berries. This was
sad, but I could deal with people's disapproval. The straw that broke
the camel's back was the crop failure in the fields we lease to Blue
House Farm. They didn't need much water for their heirloom beans and
squash, but they didn't get any. And ravenous herds of deer are
already out from the wild, searching our cultivation for food. They
ate rows of crops overnight. So I called Dave Landino the well guy,
and asked for water in the well he had drilled for us six years ago.

![image](/img/news/159_water3.JPG){: .center-image }

![image](/img/news/159_water4.JPG){: .center-image }

This is how it's done

![image](/img/news/159_water6.JPG){: .center-image }

Power's up

![image](/img/news/159_water7.JPG){: .center-image }

Just a couple of wires to hook up

![image](/img/news/159_water8.JPG){: .center-image }

Job done

![image](/img/news/159_water9.JPG){: .center-image }

![image](/img/news/159_water10.JPG){: .center-image }

Within a week, I had 110 gallons a minute.

That's a lot of water.

That's the farm's watering problems fixed.

I had a new huge bill to pay, but I couldn't feel anything but lucky.
Water is liquid gold. Back in 2009, I declined the suggestion of a
dowser or water witch. I pointed to a spot in my field and said Drill
here! I had lined the spot up with the road tunnel exit in the pasture
across the road. It turned out to be a spot of great good luck: a
deep, generous aquifer.

Next, we will fence the crops against the deer. We have a new grant to
remove the log jam in Pescadero Creek on our land. And we will begin a
long, exciting effort to build an irrigation pond in the field between
the farm and the new barn, where we have our office and baby goat
nursery. So, there's more to the water story, but it has a happy
ending.

![image](/img/news/159_water12.JPG){: .center-image }







