---
layout: post
title: "Buck Power"
date: 2014-09-30 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "We introduced Coltrane, our new, very handsome buck, to a pen of ladies this past month. At two ..."
header-img: "/img/news/161_dating0.JPG"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
We introduced Coltrane, our new, very handsome buck, to a pen of
ladies this past month. At two years, he should have the stamina to
breed about 25 does a month. At three, he will be all business,
breeding up to 40 does a month. This is his &quot;buck power&quot;.

![image](/img/news/161_dating1.JPG)

![image](/img/news/161_dating2.JPG)

Buck libido and fertility are linked to day length. Now, in late
summer and early fall, is a good time to breed. As the days get
longer, a buck produces less sperm, of uneven quality.

![image](/img/news/161_dating.JPG)

![image](/img/news/161_dating3.JPG)

Does reach puberty at anywhere from 4 to 12 months, depending on breed
and their health, but we don't breed them until they are a solid 70%
of their adult weight. At puberty, they will come on heat about every
21 days, and stay on heat for 12 to 36 hours. On heat, they will
waggle tails, snort, and flirt. We have used raddle powder in the past
to identify which does have bred first. Raddle powder is a non-toxic
dye - just a solution of colored chalk and vegetable oil will work -
that you can apply to the buck inbetween his front legs either
manually or by attaching a harness. Provided you position the powder
where it will only mark a mounted doe, you will have a good idea of
which does have bred and therefore their due dates. If marked does are
marked again the next month, you may have a buck with poor quality or
even sterile sperm.

![image](/img/news/161_dating4.JPG)

So far, Coltrane is all about the look-at-me, aren't-I-handsome
snorting and less about getting down to business. Maybe if we stop
hanging out watching?

