---
layout: post
title: "How to fill a nursery: 27 days, 200 babies"
date: 2015-03-05 12:00:00 -0700
excerpt: "You might ask why we scheduled two hundred babies in less than a month? Good question - we'll ..."
header-img: "/img/news/heads/165_2007-12-20 22_22_27-cropped.jpg"
author: Dee Harley
categories: news
---
You might ask why we scheduled two hundred babies in less than a
month? Good question - we'll ask the bucks. In the autumn, as the
mature does come on heat, we introduce our bucks to separate groups of
the does. Coltrane, Bruno and Billy Idol were all new on the farm, and
the last two were barely the size of the yearling does. We weren't
sure how appealing they would be to the women. We didn't see a whole
lot of action. Seemingly, though, the nights were sizzling. The bucks
were efficient, perhaps a little too efficient: wham, bam, why hello,
ma'am.

![image](/img/news/165_2007-12-20 22_22_27-cropped.jpg){: .center-image }

In these same three weeks Carl, our dairy plumbing expert, has
repaired the stainless steel pipe that crosses from the milking parlor
to the dairy and replaced the milk pump in the parlor. We began our
new routine of once, not twice, daily milking. Although most of the
milk is being slurped up by the babies, Salud will try to make the
first batch of ricotta today, ready for the weekend. And if not, then
very soon!

![image](/img/news/165_DSC_0225.JPG){: .center-image }

Meanwhile, we're fixing the farm kitchen drainage and installing a
flush lavatory in the small garden shed just beneath the hayloft. This
involves exciting trenches across the garden. We hope our farm dinner
customers will enjoy the elegant comforts of their new bathroom.

![image](/img/news/165_2007-12-22 23_33_09.jpg){: .center-image }

Hardworking shack: chicken coop, then garden shed, then bathroom

Inside, we have added a splendid refrigerator in the farm shop, the
first step in fitting a kitchen suitable to prepare hot soups and
drinks to add to your picnic lunches here on the farm. Check out the
alluring full-size cheesecakes, party-sized Monet cheeses, big pots of
plain ch√®vre and the farm kitchen's new harissa and kiwi nectar.

![image](/img/news/165_IMG_1565.JPG){: .center-image }

![image](/img/news/165_IMG_1589.JPG){: .center-image }

Kiwi nectar on scones for tea time

Donkey presides over the oldest kids, who are now in the run alongside
the farm chicken coop. She clearly enjoys the attention from visitors
on tours. Each morning begins with a huge bray, deafening the
rooster's effort. Then she gets to nibble my own garden, before the
gardeners get snippy, and scratch herself under one of the fruit
trees, before spending the day in the run.

![image](/img/news/165_2007-12-22 23_32_19.jpg){: .center-image }





